# Notes on potential SEC (U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission) regulation  

#### Loans backed by coins:  

Is it a security?  
How likely is SEC to come after it for regulation?   
 
Broadly the Securities Acts of 1933 and 34 are written in a way that will allow any contract that has a financial component to be classified as a security that can be regulated by the Agency.  This is not a bug but a feature designed by the writers of the law.  They wanted to give a broad jurisdiction to the SEC to regulate any future contracts it deemed necessary or desirable to regulate.  Some lawyers who work at the SEC have the opinion that the legal definition of a security so broad that they have difficulty defending their decision to regulate some new financial contract.  Generally, the SEC has the stated ability to regulate any contract that has a financial component, but they need to be mindful of public opinion.  They cannot be viewed as action in a capricious or unusual way.  They desire to be viewed as acting in a fair manner and following the rule of law, including any legal precedents and regulatory practices.  So if a new contract in question has 3 or more important characteristics that make it very much like other financial contracts that are already regulated by the SEC, then the Agency seems to feel justified in claiming regulatory authority over it.  If those other similar regulated contracts have large capital markets or are actively traded, then the SEC may feel even stronger.  However, just because the Agency can regulate a new contract, that does not mean the Agency will desire to do so. The Agency provides plenty of "no-action letters," stating that for the medium-term, they will not attempt to regulate certain type of contract. They could change their minds in the future if they believe the character of the market has changed, but the receiver of the "no-action letter" may rest assured that the SEC will not try to come after them. Legally, only the entity who is named as the recepient of the letter can rely on this assurance, but in practice other entities who becomes aware of the letter feel comfortable relying on it.  Generally, it seems the Agency does not wish to start regulating a small dollar market.  It also does not seem to want to regulate something that is complicated and requires a lot of effort to understand.  At least not at the beginning.  They will wait to see if the market gets bigger or until they feel compelled to do something about it because its market has become too important.  I believe cryptocurrencies and related loan-like financial contracts may have reached this point in the SEC Commissioners' minds.        
 


